# Introduction

Zum Glück schreibt nicht jeder sein eigenes Betriebssystem...

## Expectations on Security

Sentences that don't really mean anything:
- Make our systems and software conform to the *** legislation on security.
- Use security standard *** within our development process.
- Guarantee security level *** for our software.
- Make sure that the system you're building is secure.

Security always has a price - complete security is not usable.

_Gentlemans Agreement:_ Owner of a vulnerability should always be informed first, if a serious vulnerability has been found.


## Security Classifications 

__CVSS:__ Common Vulnerability Scoring System
__CWE:__ Common Weakness Enumeration - Grouping of similar vulnerabilities into classes

Low: 
Medium: Exploit not trivial, exploit not proven working, unknown if exploit exists
High: one step attack, no traces left (10/10)

### Interaction between Components
CWE Rank 2 and 3: XSS / SQL Injection
Never trust input.. If you think you know who sends it, validate that it is true.

### Inappropriate Resource Usage

CWE Rank 1: Out of bounds write. Writing to array index that is out of bounds.

### Defence Mechanisms that are ignored

"simple stupidity".

CWE Rank 8: Path Traversal, improper limitation of a pathname to a restricted directory. /etc/ in unix OS is always a good target. Configurations, passwords, many interesting things in there.

CWE Rank 14: Improper Authentication
Example: Domain Admin creates a new user account without re-authentication to do this operation.

CWE Rank 15: Use of hard-coded credentials. Always check before release! Best with automated tooling.

CWE Rank 16: Missing Authorization: hard, provable boundary of a system is not possible anymore since the 90s..

CWE Rank 18: Missing Authentication for critical function. High Privilege calls, adding a new user

CWE Rank 20: Incorrect Default Permission.. Full access always works.

CWE Rank 25: Improper control of generation of code (Code Injection, tool automation.. (Fody?))


## Three Pillars for Secure Software

- Risk Management (only do something where it hurts. thread model = risk assessment)

- Touchpoints (where can we change something)

- Knowledge (what can we do, where are our problems)

80 / 20 % problem reduction, low hanging fruits 

1. Know and secure your weakest link  
    usually social engineering: make sure no single mistake of a user can kill your system.
2. Practice defense in depth:  
always use multiple layers
3. Fail securely (RMI: Remote Method Invocation)
4. Follow the principle of least privilege:  
run with least privilege, access information with least privilege, revoke when not needed
5. Compartmentalize
6. Keep it simple (, stupid)
7. Promote privacy:  
Authenticity, Classification, Integrity
8. Remember that hiding secrets is hard:
don't do security by obscurity - minimize attack surface on the secret
9. Be reluctant to trust
10. Use your community resources:
do not write your own security algorithms..

